content/core-rules/index.md, before:

---
description: ''
sidebar: 'core-rules'
---

# Introduction

> The _Book of a Thousand Tales_ is a legendarium of fantastic stories, bold adventures, and epic poems handed down through generations, cataloguing the grand mythology of the most distant and half-forgotten reaches of our land. Sages, scribes, and storytellers the world over are ever on the hunt for new tales to add to its hallowed pages.
>
> &mdash; Alhazred, Chronicler of the Abyss

In truth, **Book of the Thousand Tales** is a tabletop role-playing game in the vein of Dungeons &amp; Dragons or Call of Cthulhu. It is story- and character-driven, and strives to reward players with small, memorable tales full of meaningful decisions, fast-paced action, and satisfying progression.

To achieve the above, Book of a Thousand Tales implements a game system by Tomas H&auml;renstam called the [Year Zero Engine](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hJbU3umOMxQB7voJw8dj3UJMnABmON81j9cGxX_JOWc/edit). If you have played games like [_Tales from the Loop_](https://frialigan.se/en/games/tales-from-the-loop/) or [_Forbidden Lands_](https://frialigan.se/en/games/forbidden-lands/), many of the mechanics in Book of a Thousand Tales will already be familiar to you.

## Players and Roles

Book of a Thousand Tales can be played with more or less any number of players, but you will find best results with a group size between three and seven. One of these players will take the role of the **Storyteller** (ST), and the others will portray the main **player characters** (PCs) in the story.

### Player Characters

Each player except one controls a player character (PC). As a player controlling a character, it is your job to immerse yourself in your character. You decide what your character thinks and feels, what they say and do&mdash;but not what happens to them. They may be an adventurer in a faraway fantasy world, but they are still, at heart, a person with feelings and dreams, just like you. Try to imagine: how would you react if you were in your character's shoes? What would you do? The player characters are always the protagonists of the story. The game is about you. Your decisions, your adventures.

### Storyteller

The player who is not participating as a character instead takes the role of the Storyteller (ST). As the Storyteller, you describe the game world to your players, play the other people they meet, and control the enemies they fight. The game is a conversation between you and the players, back and forth, until a critical situation arises where the outcome is uncertain. Then it's time to break out the dice&mdash;read more about this in the "Skills" and "Combat" sections of this text.

It is the ST's job to put obstacles in the players' paths and challenge the PCs, forcing them to show what they're really made of. But it is not up to the ST to decide everything that happens in the game&mdash;and above all, not how the story is supposed to end. That is decided in the game. That is why you are playing the game: to find out how the story ends.


## The Gameplay Loop

Each time you sit down to play Book of a Thousand Tales, you are creating a tale of your own to add to this august tradition. _How_ this exactly happens will be covered in detail later in this text, but in broad strokes:

1. The ST describes for the players the setting, including any important non-player characters (NPCs), events, locations, or other relevant context.
2. The players respond to this information by describing the actions their characters take in the world.
3. The ST describes the results of the PCs' actions and how they move the story forward.

These three steps are repeated until the story comes to its natural conclusion.

## Key Principles

The Year Zero Engine is built around a handful of key design principles that inform the structure and flow of games that implement it. Book of a Thousand Tales is one such game, and as such, it carries forward these important design principles, in addition to introducing a few of its own. The Book of a Thousand Tales is intended to be:

- **Accessible**<br>The basics of Book of a Thousand Tales are very easy to learn&mdash;roll a pool of six-sided dice, you need at least one six to succeed, and the more sixes you roll, the better the result. This simple core is very easy to teach to new players, making the barrier to play very low. Complexity and depth are added piece by piece, offering more choices to the player as their character explores the world.
- **Efficient**<br>Book of a Thousand Tales eliminates any and all dice-rolling that doesn't directly drive the action forward. There's no point in rolling to perform an action, regardless of difficulty, for which there is no penalty for failure. Which means the game is also...
- **Consequential**<br>Your character's actions have consequences in the world of Book of a Thousand Tales. These consequences are often dangerous and sometimes deadly. Success often leads to a breakthrough in the story, but every roll carries with it some level of risk. This drives the action of the story forward through a series of decisive moments and gives weight to the players' choices.
- **Memorable**<br>Your character's actions have meaning, and leave a lasting impact on both themself and the world. There are no classes or levels in Book of a Thousand Tales; rather, your character is the sum of their experiences and skills, and character progression is modelled as growth in those skills and their related disciplines. Your character grows a little bit with every action they take.
- **Free and Open-source**<br>This rules text, and all accompanying content on this website, is provided for free, to all, in perpetuity. The entire site is stored in a public GitHub repository. Want to add a creature? Or an item? Don't like some part of how the game works? We welcome [pull requests](https://github.com/bookofathousandtales/bookofathousandtales.github.io/pulls).

## Dark Mode

This seems to be a must have for any site in current year. Click the icon at the top of the page and try it out for yourself!

## TailwindCSS

This starter uses [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) for layout and styling. You can easily configure it by editing the `tailwind.config.js` file. [PurgeCSS](https://purgecss.com/) is included as well to keep the bundle size as low as possible and the website fast and snappy!

### Changing Colors

The most important colors are defined in the `src/layouts/Default.vue` file at the top of the `style` block via CSS variables. If you want to change the primary color to orange for example, you would simply touch that value there.

```css
:rrot {
  --color-ui-primary: theme('colors.orange.600');
}
```

## Make it your own

Of course this is just a starter to quickly get you going. After downloading and installing you can do whatever you want with this theme. Check out the `src` folder and take a look at the components.

Docc uses [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). Colors and spacing can easily configured. To change the accent color, you only need to touch a single line in the code.

Don't like how something was designed or implemented? Just change the code and **make it your way**.

### Contribute

If you find any spelling mistakes or have improvements to offer, I am open to anyone who has ideas and wants to contribute to this starter theme.

Commit message:

Add stubs for player's guide and storyteller's guide

content/core-rules/index.md, after:

---
description: ''
sidebar: 'core-rules'
---

# Introduction

> The _Book of a Thousand Tales_ is a legendarium of fantastic stories, bold adventures, and epic poems handed down through generations, cataloguing the grand mythology of the most distant and half-forgotten reaches of our land. Sages, scribes, and storytellers the world over are ever on the hunt for new tales to add to its hallowed pages.
>
> &mdash; Alhazred, Chronicler of the Abyss

In truth, **Book of the Thousand Tales** is a tabletop role-playing game in the vein of Dungeons &amp; Dragons or Call of Cthulhu. It is story- and character-driven, and strives to reward players with small, memorable tales full of meaningful decisions, fast-paced action, and satisfying progression.

To achieve the above, Book of a Thousand Tales implements a game system by Tomas H&auml;renstam called the [Year Zero Engine](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hJbU3umOMxQB7voJw8dj3UJMnABmON81j9cGxX_JOWc/edit). If you have played games like [_Tales from the Loop_](https://frialigan.se/en/games/tales-from-the-loop/) or [_Forbidden Lands_](https://frialigan.se/en/games/forbidden-lands/), many of the mechanics in Book of a Thousand Tales will already be familiar to you.

## Players and Roles

Book of a Thousand Tales can be played with more or less any number of players, but you will find best results with a group size between three and seven. One of these players will take the role of the **Storyteller** (ST), and the others will portray the main **player characters** (PCs) in the story.

### Player Characters

Each player except one controls a player character (PC). As a player controlling a character, it is your job to immerse yourself in your character. You decide what your character thinks and feels, what they say and do&mdash;but not what happens to them. They may be an adventurer in a faraway fantasy world, but they are still, at heart, a person with feelings and dreams, just like you. Try to imagine: how would you react if you were in your character's shoes? What would you do? The player characters are always the protagonists of the story. The game is about you. Your decisions, your adventures.

### Storyteller

The player who is not participating as a character instead takes the role of the Storyteller (ST). As the Storyteller, you describe the game world to your players, play the other people they meet, and control the enemies they fight. The game is a conversation between you and the players, back and forth, until a critical situation arises where the outcome is uncertain. Then it's time to break out the dice&mdash;read more about this in the "Skills" and "Combat" sections of this text.

It is the ST's job to put obstacles in the players' paths and challenge the PCs, forcing them to show what they're really made of. But it is not up to the ST to decide everything that happens in the game&mdash;and above all, not how the story is supposed to end. That is decided in the game. That is why you are playing the game: to find out how the story ends.


## The Gameplay Loop

Each time you sit down to play Book of a Thousand Tales, you are creating a tale of your own to add to this august tradition. _How_ this exactly happens will be covered in detail later in this text, but in broad strokes:

1. The ST describes for the players the setting, including any important non-player characters (NPCs), events, locations, or other relevant context.
2. The players respond to this information by describing the actions their characters take in the world.
3. The ST describes the results of the PCs' actions and how they move the story forward.

These three steps are repeated until the story comes to its natural conclusion.

## Key Principles

The Year Zero Engine is built around a handful of key design principles that inform the structure and flow of games that implement it. Book of a Thousand Tales is one such game, and as such, it carries forward these important design principles, in addition to introducing a few of its own. The Book of a Thousand Tales is intended to be:

- **Accessible**<br>The basics of Book of a Thousand Tales are very easy to learn&mdash;roll a pool of six-sided dice, you need at least one six to succeed, and the more sixes you roll, the better the result. This simple core is very easy to teach to new players, making the barrier to play very low. Complexity and depth are added piece by piece, offering more choices to the player as their character explores the world.
- **Efficient**<br>Book of a Thousand Tales eliminates any and all dice-rolling that doesn't directly drive the action forward. There's no point in rolling to perform an action, regardless of difficulty, for which there is no penalty for failure. Which means the game is also...
- **Consequential**<br>Your character's actions have consequences in the world of Book of a Thousand Tales. These consequences are often dangerous and sometimes deadly. Success often leads to a breakthrough in the story, but every roll carries with it some level of risk. This drives the action of the story forward through a series of decisive moments and gives weight to the players' choices.
- **Memorable**<br>Your character's actions have meaning, and leave a lasting impact on both themself and the world. There are no classes or levels in Book of a Thousand Tales; rather, your character is the sum of their experiences and skills, and character progression is modelled as growth in those skills and their related disciplines. Your character grows a little bit with every action they take.
- **Free and Open-source**<br>This rules text, and all accompanying content on this website, is provided for free, to all, in perpetuity. The entire site is stored in a public GitHub repository. Want to add a creature? Or an item? Don't like some part of how the game works? We welcome [pull requests](https://github.com/bookofathousandtales/bookofathousandtales.github.io/pulls).

## Tools of the Trade

You need very little in the way of resources in order to jump into a game of Book of a Thousand Tales. All players will need some means of simulating a six-sided die roll, and player characters will also need a character sheet.

### Dice

As a player in Book of a Thousand Tales, you will have to take risks. Sooner or later, your character will end up in situations where the outcome is uncertain, no matter how skilled they are. It’s time to break out the dice. Regular six-sided dice (also called D6) are required to play Book of a Thousand Tales. You will need 10-15 of these dice&mdash;if you don't have actual dice on hand, there are plenty of free app-based solutions that work just as well.

### Character Sheets

To document your character, you use a character sheet. In the beta release of Book of a Thousand Tales, this sheet is available as a Google Sheet, which you can copy and modify to your heart's content. For specifics on _how_ to create your character, continue on to the Player's Guide.
